Blog post introducing kwok (#377)
kubernetes/contributor-site: content/en/blog/2023/2023-03-01-introducing-kwok/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing KWOK: Kubernetes WithOut Kubelet"
date: 2023-03-01
slug: introducing-kwok
---

> **Author:** Shiming Zhang (DaoCloud), Wei Huang (Apple), Yibo Zhuang (Apple)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Authors:** Shiming Zhang (DaoCloud), Wei Huang (Apple), Yibo Zhuang (Apple)
```

> <img align="right" width="300em" src="/blog/2023/03/01/introducing-kwok/kwok.svg"/>

Reviewer: FYI 300em is **very** big (around 1200mm). Try 15em?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img style="float: right; display: inline-block; margin-left: 2em; max-width: 15em;" src="/blog/2023/03/01/introducing-kwok/kwok.svg" alt="KWOK logo" />
```
(untested)

Have you ever wondered how to set up a cluster of thousands of nodes just in seconds, how to simulate real nodes with a low resource footprint, and how to test your Kubernetes controller at scale without spending much on infrastructure?

> If you say "yes" to any of these questions, then you might be interested in KWOK, a toolkit that enables you to create a cluster of thousands of nodes in seconds.

Reviewer: (wording nit; optional to accept)
```suggestion
If you answered "yes" to any of these questions, then you might be interested in KWOK, a toolkit that enables you to create a cluster of thousands of nodes in seconds.
```

## What is KWOK?

> KWOK stands for Kubernetes WithOut Kubelet. So far, we provide two tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KWOK stands for Kubernetes WithOut Kubelet. So far, we (Kubernetes SIG Scheduling) provide two tools:
```

> - **kwok**: The core of this project. It simulates thousands of fake nodes.
> - **kwokctl**: A CLI to facilitate the creation and management of clusters simulated by **kwok**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kwok`
: The core of this project. The `kwok` tool simulates thousands of fake nodes.

`kwokctl`
: A CLI tool to facilitate the creation and management of clusters with nodes simulated by `kwok`.
```

## Why use KWOK?

KWOK has several advantages:

- **Speed**: You can create and delete clusters and nodes almost instantly, without waiting for boot or provisioning.
- **Compatibility**: KWOK works with any tools or clients that are compliant with Kubernetes APIs, such as kubectl, helm, kui, etc.

> - **Portability**: KWOK has no special hardware or software requirements. You can run it on your laptop, desktop or any cloud instance that supports Docker. You can also run it alongside other Kubernetes clusters or tools.

Reviewer: Is Docker required (could you also use Podman)? If there's no hard dependency on Docker, can we reword to make that clear?

Author: Updated, in addition to Docker, Nerdctl and binary are supported and Podman may be supported in the future.

  - You can generate high loads on your cluster by creating many pods or services with different resource requests or limits.
  - You can simulate node failures or network partitions by changing node conditions or randomly deleting nodes.
  - You can test how your controller interacts with other components or features of Kubernetes by enabling different feature gates or API versions.

## What are the limitations?

KWOK is not intended to replace others completely. It has some limitations that you should be aware of:

- **Functionality**: KWOK is not a kubelet and many behaviors may be different, such as pod lifecycle management, volume mounting, device plugins, etc. It only simulates updates of node status and pod status.
- **Accuracy**: KWOK does not reflect the actual performance or behavior of real nodes under different workloads or environments. It only approximates some behaviors based on simple formulas.
- **Security**: KWOK does not enforce any security policies or mechanisms on simulated nodes. It assumes that all requests from the kube-apiserver are authorized and valid.

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```

If you are interested in trying out KWOK, please check its [documents] for more details.

> {{< figure src="/blog/2023/03/01/introducing-kwok/manage-clusters.svg" alt="KWOK Manage Clusters" caption="KWOK Manage Clusters" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src="/blog/2023/03/01/introducing-kwok/manage-clusters.svg" alt="Animation of a terminal showing KWOW in use" caption="Using KWOK to manage simulated clusters" >}}
```

## Getting Involved

If you're interested in future development and discussions on KWOK, you can get involved in SIG Scheduling through the following ways:

> - Slack: [#kwok], [#kwok-dev], [#sig-scheduling]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Slack: [#kwok], [#kwok-dev], [#sig-scheduling] (visit https://slack.k8s.io/ for a workspace invitation)
```
